# Topics

The whole library is based on topics. The topic is the "logical" division of communication. When a publisher or subscriber are created they are created for an specific topic. Only messages from subscribed topics will be received.

The topic is represented by an String that can have any length or content. We don't recommend using very long topics because it increases the bandwidth required for auto-discovery.

The messages are delivered through real UDP and Multicast connections that are matched against the topics following the provided configuration.

In the [Configuration](https://github.com/BBVA-CIB/Vega-Messaging/wiki/02.-Configuration) section it will be explained how a topic is matched to an specific transport configuration.

# Channels, Streams and Subnets

The channels and streams defines the real transport connections that are performed for the communication.

### Channel

The channel is an Aeron concept and describes the transport type (UDP, IPC, Multicast), the IP address to use if required and the Port to use if required.

In the VegaLibrary the channels are hidden and are internally created using the configuration parameters for the end-points and the auto-discovery information for the clients of the end-points.

### Stream

Another Aeron concept that is used for multiplexing. When a connection is performed we need to select the channel and also the StreamID to use. This StreamID represents a separated buffer for incoming or out coming messages inside the same channel. This means we can use the same "socket" represented by a channel with multiple streams , multiplexing the messages into separate buffers for better performance.

### Subnet

A computer may have multiple network interfaces and just the IP address for the socket creation is not enough on that cases to know witch network interface to use. To solve this is possible to provide a subnet address as part of a channel to specify the interface to use.

# Topic / Transport matching

In the configuration file of the VegaLibrary we specify configuration templates for the topics. 

This templates are used when a topic is created to internally create the right Channel + Stream + Subnet configuration that will define the transport to use.

The transport is always decided by the "end-point". For unicast the end-point is the receiver and for multicast and IPC is the sender. 

In the configuration we provided a range of ports and stream id's and in the case of multicast a range of multicast address as well.

**The actual transport to use will belong to the range of values provided and will always be the same for the same configuration and topic.**

## ¿How is the matching then?

The matching process is very simple, a Hash is performed over the topic name generating a number. This number is used to get one of the ports, stream id, and ip addresses on the provided range. Since the hash is always the same for the same topic name, this match result is not random.

This is very powerfull if all the aplications share the topics configuration. If 2 applications on the same machine connects to the same topic, they will both use the same transport that can be handled by the Media Driver what will prevent creating 2 separate sockets, improving resources reutilisation and performance.

**Important: This can also be a problem when embedded drivers are used, it will be explained in the Media Driver section.**

# Auto discovery

As explained in the previous section, the configuration is used to define the transport information for the topic when a new end-point is created.

The clients that are not end-points are:
* IPC and Multicast Subscribers
* UDP Publishers

These needs the information of the end-points to connect to them in order to receive messages. This information is shared by a process os "Auto-Discovery".

The auto-discovery is based on publication and subscriptions to "Adverts" that contains information about the topics, transports, library instances, etc that is shared between clients in order to create the proper connections to communicate between them.

## Auto discovery types

There are 2 types of auto-discovery:

### Unicast

It uses UDP unicast communication to transmit the auto-discovery information. It requires a "centralised" node that can distribute the auto discovery messages among all the clients. This node is called "AutoDiscovery Unicast Daemon". All the clients should know where the daemon is in order to communicate with it.

This solution is good for networks where multicast is not allowed. 

**Important: We don't recommend to use it in production environments since it is a single point of failure and it doesn't scale with the number of clients in the network.**

### Multicast

Is the best auto discovery mechanism. All the nodes shares their information through the same multicast group and don't depend on any centralised node to route or replicate the messages.

It is the recommended configuration for production environments.