# Introduction

The first step to use the library is to create an instance of VegaMessaging. The VegaInstance is the main class for the library usage and most of the interactions are performed through it.

Each instance is completely isolated. This means the instance handles all the internal memory, configuration, resources, topics, publication, threads and auto-discovery process separately.

**Important**: we don't recommend creating more than 1 instance per application to avoid excessive resources consumption.  

# Create a new instance

The instances are created through the class VegaInstance and it only requires the parameters of the instance. 

The parameters uses the "Builder" pattern and have 3 elements:

* the instance name (compulsory) -> A name for the created instance. It will be used in the log and also send in the auto-discovery process. It is better if is unique but is not compulsory.
* the configuration file (compulsory) -> The full path to the configuration file for the instance 
unmanaged media driver (optional) -> This parameter is used to force the usage of a MediaDriver that belongs to the same application but is not managed by the instance.
* unmanaged media driver (optional) -> This parameter is used to force the usage of a MediaDriver that belongs to the same application but is not managed by the instance.

**Note**: IVegaInstance implements the standard Java interface Closeable, what means we can use it inside a try sentence to use the Closeable feature of Java 7.

## Create instance example

    // Create the instance parameters
    VegaInstanceParams params = VegaInstanceParams.builder().
                instanceName("TestInstance").
                configurationFile("path/to/config/config.xml").build();

    // Create a new instance
    IVegaInstance instance = VegaInstance.createNewInstance(params);


The returned IVegaInstance object once the instance is created would be used to create publishers and subscribers.

Here is the interface that is available through the created instance object:

    **
    * Interface for the manager. The manager is the main class of the library
    */
    public interface IVegaInstance extends Closeable
    {
        /**
        * Create a new publisher to sendMsg messages into a topic
        *
        * It is not possible to create 2 publishers for the same topic unless the publisher is destroyed first.
        *
        * Each publisher instance is associated to an unique given topic.
        *
        * @param topic The topic to publish into.
        * @return the created publisher
        * @throws VegaException exception thrown if there is a problem in the subscription or the topic is not configured
        */
        ITopicPublisher createPublisher(final String topic) throws VegaException;

        /**
        * Destroys the publisher for the given topic.
        *
        * @param topic The topic of the publisher to destroy
        * @throws VegaException exception thrown if there is a problem destroying the publisher
        */
        void destroyPublisher(final String topic) throws VegaException;

        
        /**
        * Subscribes to the given topic in order to get messages from it.
        * 
        * You cannot subscribeToSubscribers to a topic twice.
        * 
        * @param topicName   Topic name to subscribeToSubscribers to.
        * @param listener    The Listener where the user wants to receive the messages.
        * @throws VegaException exception thrown if there is a problem or if it is already subscribed
        */
        void subscribeToTopic(final String topicName, final ITopicSubListener listener) throws VegaException;

        /**
        * Unsubscribe from a topicName.
        *
        * @param topicName Topic name that will be unsubscribed from. Allowed {@link String}
        * @throws VegaException exception thrown if there is a problem or if it is already unsubscribed
        */
        void unsubscribeFromTopic(final String topicName) throws VegaException;

        /**
        * Subscribes to topics that match the given pattern in order to get messages from it.
        *
        * It will also trigger notifications on topics created by the same instance. <p>
        *
        * Important! If a topic match a normal subscription and pattern subscription or even multiple pattern subscriptions and
        * they share the listener, the event will be received on the listener multiple times, once per subscription. <p>
        *
        * Important! Messages will only be received for configured topics that match the pattern.
        *
        * @param topicPattern the topic pattern in Java pattern format
        * @param listener The listener where the user wants to receive the messages.
        *
        * @throws VegaException exception thrown if there is a problem or if it is already subscribed tot he pattern
        */
        void subscribeToPattern(final String topicPattern, final ITopicSubListener listener) throws VegaException;

        /**
        * Unsubscribe from a topic pattern.
        *
        * @param topicPattern the topic pattern to unsubscribe from
        * @throws VegaException exception thrown if there is any problem in the un-subscription
        */
        void unsubscribeFromPattern(final String topicPattern) throws VegaException;
    }

    **Note:** When the instance is closed, it automatically close any created publisher or subscriber and stops all the internal processes. It is not necessary to manually destroy all subscriptions and publishers before closing it.