# Introduction

The library is based on a publication / subscription model and topics. Messages are always sent to an specific topic and subscriptions are performed over an specific topic as well.

The publication is "broadcast", a message published for a topic will arrive to any subscriber that is subscribed to it.

**Important**: Publication is broadcast, there is no way to publish a message only to an specific subscriber unless it is the only subscriber connected to the topic.

The process of auto-discovery ensures that the Topic Publishers and Topic Subscribers knows about each other to ensure this broadcast behaviour. This process is transparent to the user of the library.

In the case of Unicast Transport, the library will create the required connections to reach all the subscribers that are listening to the same topic.

# Creating a subscriber and receiving messages

There are 2 ways to subscribe to receive messages and requests. Both follows a listener model in which the user provides a listener interface to receive incoming messages:

## Subscribe to topic

Calling the method _subscribeToTopic_ in the IVegaInstance interface would perform an specific topic subscription for a topic name.

The topic has match one of the configured patterns in the instance XML configuration, if there is no configuration match an exception will be thrown.

You cannot subscribe to the same topic twice unless the first subscription is removed first.

**Important**: The subscription is asynchronous, it will be performed in the background and will trigger the auto-discovery process.

## Subscribe to pattern

The method _subscribeToPattern_ in the IVegaInstance interface will perform a pattern topic subscription. This means that it will receive messages from any topic publisher that match the provided topic pattern. 

A topic pattern is just a java regular expression that used to match every time there is a new topic in the network. If there is a match the proper transport connections will be created internally to get messages from the topic.

**Important**: If a topic match the pattern it is check also against the instance configuration, if it doesn't match any configuration it will be ignored.

You cannot subscribe to the same topic pattern twice on the same way that you cannot subscribe to the same topic twice.

## The listener interface

For both topic and pattern subscriptions is necessary to provide an object that implements the interface ITopicSubListener. This object will receive the incoming messages and requests for the subscribed topic.

Here is how the interface looks like:

    /**
    * Implement in order to receive messages on a subscribed topic
    */
    public interface ITopicSubListener
    {
        /**
        * Method called when a message is received.
        *
        * IMPORTANT: If the received message contents are going to be accessed from a separate thread the message should be promoted!!
        *
        * @param receivedMessage the received message
        */
        void onMessageReceived(final IRcvMessage receivedMessage);

        /**
        * Method called when a request message is received.
        *
        * IMPORTANT: If the received message contents are going to be accessed from a separate thread the message should be promoted!!
        *
        * @param receivedRequest the received request
        */
        void onRequestReceived(final IRcvRequest receivedRequest);
        
        /**
        * The method is invoked when a gap in the sequence number of the last two messages received from the same topicPublisherId is detected
        * This sequence number is located at the message data header of Vega {@link com.bbva.kyof.vega.msg.MsgDataHeader }
        * 
        * Vega is implemented over Aeron, that provides a reliable connection for unreliable protocols.
        * Even so, there may be messages that Aeron can not recover. For this reason, this functionality has been implemented,
        * allowing the user to know when a message is lost.
        *
        * The sequence numbers are shared by messages and requests and therefore this callback applies to any of both cases.
        *
        * Message loss is not check for responses.
        *
        * Default implementation does nothing with the loss report
        * 
        * @param lostReport a report of the lost messages
        */
        default void onMessageLost(final IMsgLostReport lostReport)
        {    
            // By default there is no action to take
        }
    } 

You have to implement the method onMessageReceived to process incoming messages. The requests will be reviewed in the Req / Resp section.

For each new message received a call to onMessageReceived will be performed by the library.

The call contains a reference to the received message.

### How to detect message loss?

The interface contains a default method since version 1.4 that notifies when there is a message loss on reception.

Each topic publisher contains it's own sequence number that is user by the receiver to detect message loss coming from an specific publisher.

It is possible to query the topic name that has caused the loss, the sender instance unique id, the topic publisher unique id and the number of loss messages.

This is only triggered in very rare occasions when the message recovery of Aeron cannot recover from a loss. This means there are serious problems on the network or the applications.

Even if the method of the interface is not implemented the loss will be logged as a Warning.

    /**
    * Interface that represents the information about the lost messages.
    */
    public interface IMsgLostReport
    {
        /** @return the topic name of the received message */
        String getTopicName();

        /** @return  the instance id of the message sender */
        UUID getInstanceId();
        
        /** @return the topic publisher id of the message sender*/
        UUID getTopicPublisherId();
        
        /** @return the number of messages that have been lost */
        long getNumberLostMessages();   
    }


## The IRcvMessage interface

The received message implements an interface. This interface allows to extract the binary contents of the message and additional information like the topic name the message belongs to.

    /**
    * Interface that represents received message.<p>
    *
    * The contents of the message comes in the form of an UnsafeBuffer <p>
    *
    * It is also possible to get the contents as a ByteBuffer <p>
    *
    * The message object and contents are reused by the library to avoid memory allocation, always promote the message
    * if the message contents are going to be accessed on separate user thread!
    */
    public interface IRcvMessage
    {
        /** @return the topic name of the received message */
        String getTopicName();

        /** @return  the instance id of the message sender */
        UUID getInstanceId();

        /**
        * Return the offset in the message contents where the user msg starts
        *
        * @return the content message offset
        */
        int getContentOffset();

        /**
        * Return the lenght of the user message
        *
        * @return the length of the message
        */

        int getContentLength();

        /**
        * Return an UnsafeBuffer with the user contents of the message. This is the most optimal way to deal with the message contents.
        *
        * The offset in the buffer and total user msg length can be retrieved using the respective methods, getContentOffset() and getContentLenght()
        *
        * @return the UnsafeBuffer with the message contents
        */
        UnsafeBuffer getContents();

        /**
        * Promote the message by cloning all internal fields into a new message, including the content
        *
        * Since the library will try to reuse internal buffers you have to promote the message if it's contents are going
        * to be accessed from a separate thread.
        *
        * @return the new created promoted message
        */
        IRcvMessage promote();
    }

The Instance ID is a unique identifier that is created every time a new instance of the library is instantiated. The value belongs to the instance that sent the message.

The topic name is the topic the message has bent sent into.

### How to process the binary contents?

The contents of the message always comes in binary form. 

The contents are provided as an **UnsafeBuffer** for máximum performance. The offset in the buffer and the length of the contents can be retrieved with the methods getContentOffset() and getContentLength().

UnsafeBuffer implements a direct access buffer designed for ultra low latency and is the optimal way to process the contents of the message.

If we want to use a more traditional approach, it is possible to process the content of the message as a ByteBuffer. In this case there are 2 options:

**Create a new ByteBuffer and copy the message contents into the buffer.** Here is a simple example code:

    @Override
    public void onMessageReceived(final IRcvMessage receivedMessage){
        // Get the binary length of the message
        int messageLentgh = receivedMessage.getContentLength();
        // Get the offset of the message in the buffer
        int msgOffset = receivedMessage.getContentOffset();
        // Create a new byte buffer to copy the contents into
        ByteBuffer byteBufferContents = ByteBuffer.allocate(messageLentgh);
        // Copy the contents into the created buffer
        receivedMessage.getContents().getBytes(msgOffset, byteBufferContents, messageLentgh);
        // Process the contents, it can be processes on a separate thread also without promotions
    }

**Important**: This may not be the best solution since new memory has to be created every time we create a new ByteBuffer.

**Important**: If the contents are copied there is no need to promote the message to use it in a separate thread as soon we don't access any message information directly.

**Create a reusable ByteBuffer and copy the message contents into the buffer and reuse it for each message.**

**Important**: This solution is more memory efficient but you should be careful to avoid space problems if the reusable buffer is too small.

### Process the message on a separate thread: Message Promotion

The library try to optimise the usage of memory as much as possible. This means it will reuse the Message object provided in the callback for the next callback in order to prevent unnecessary memory allocation.

The message is "safe" while the code of the listener callback is being executed but as soon as the callback end the object will be reused.

**If the message is going to be processes on a separate thread you need to call promote() and process the "promoted" message in the separate thread instead of the original one.**

**Tip:** Promoting messages requires a copy of the fields and the binary contents and is not very efficient. Try to "deserialise" the message contents inside the callback and process the deserialised contents in a separate thread to avoid the promote() call.

## Full example

    `// Create the instance parameters
    VegaInstanceParams params = VegaInstanceParams.builder().
                    instanceName("TestInstance").
                    configurationFile("config.xml").build();

    // Create the library instance
    IVegaInstance instance = VegaInstance.createNewInstance(params);

    // Create a listener
    ITopicSubListener listener = new ITopicSubListener()
    {
        @Override
        public void onMessageReceived(IRcvMessage receivedMessage)
        {
            // Process the received message        
        }

        @Override
        public void onRequestReceived(IRcvRequest receivedRequest) {}
    };

    // Subscribe to topic
    instance.subscribeToTopic("Topic1", listener);

    // Unsubscribe from topic
    instance.unsubscribeFromTopic("Topic1", listener);

    // Subscribe to topic pattern
    instance.subscribeToPattern("Topic.*", listener);

    // Unsubscribe from topic pattern
    instance.unsubscribeFromPattern("Topic*", listener);

## Important considerations

### Transports should match configuration

It is not possible to subscribe to a topic that has a different transport than the one configured in the instance. For example if we configure the topic "a" to be multicast and there is a publisher that publish into the topic "a" in unicast, the connection between them won't be performed.

**Important**: All the publishers and subscribers on the same auto-discovery domain should share the same transport type configurations for the same topics!

### Messages duplicated due to pattern subscriptions

If you subscribe to a topic pattern and also to a topic and the topic match both the topic name and the topic pattern, the messages will arrive twice. Once due to the patter subscription and once due to the topic subscription. 

If the listener object is different this may not be a problem, but if the same object is used it will look as if 2 messages have been received, but is actually the same message.

The same problem happens if there are multiple topic pattern subscription and a topic match more than one.

**Important**: Make sure there are not multiple matches for a topic between the topic subscriptions and the pattern subscriptions in your application.

### Do not block the callbacks of the poller

The pollers are used to poll for new messages for topic subscriptions, pattern subscriptions and responses.

Each poller is a single thread, what means that if the same poller is used for all the instance, you can only receive one message at a time from any topic or any response.

If you block the poller by doing too much work in the callback, it will prevent more messages from arriving and they will be accumulated in the internal buffers. This will eventually cause loss, retransmissions and degradation of performance.

**Important**: Try to spend less time as possible in the callback. Never perform a full thread block. If you need to perform a long operation on response to a received message, decouple the operation and perform it on a separate thread.

# Creating a publisher and sending messages

The process to create a publisher is very similar than the one followed to create a subscriber. In this case is simple since there is a single type of publishers.

There is no concept of "pattern publisher", each publisher is created for a single specific topic.

To create a new publisher you can use the method _createPublisher()_ with the name of the topic you want to publish into.

The method return an object of type ITopicPublisher, this object is used to send messages into the topic.

**Important**: You cannot create to publishers for the same topic unless the first one has been destroyed first.

**Important**: You cannot create a topic publisher for a topic that is not configured in the instance xml configuration, it will cause an exception to be launch.

## Using ITopicPublisher to send messages

The object returned in the _createPublisher()_ call can be used to send messages into the topic or requests.

Here is the full interface:

    /**
    * Interface for a topic publisher with the functionality available for a user
    */
    public interface ITopicPublisher{
        /**
        * This method sendM a normal message
        *
        * Try to reuse buffers if possible to reduce memory usage!
        *
        * It will send the provided offset and length to get the contents in the buffer to send
        *
        * @param message the binary message to send
        * @param offset Offset for the message start in the buffer
        * @param length Length of the message starting in the given offset
        * @return the enum with the result of the publication
        */
        PublishResult sendMsg(final DirectBuffer message, final int offset, final int length);

        /**
        * Send a request on the topic.
        *
        * It will send the provided offset and length to get the contents in the buffer to send
        *
        * Try to reuse buffers if possible to reduce memory allocation.
        *
        * @param message The request message to send
        * @param offset Offset for the message start in the buffer
        * @param length Length of the message starting in the given offset
        * @param timeout the timeout of the request in milliseconds
        * @param respListener Listener for responses on the request. If null no responses will be processed.
        *
        * @return an object that represent the sent request, containing the request ID and other useful information like the publish result
        */
        ISentRequest sendRequest(final DirectBuffer message, final int offset, final int length, final long timeout, final IResponseListener respListener);

        /** @return the topic associated to this topic publisher */
        String getTopicName();
        
        /** @return topic unique Id associated to this topic publisher */
        UUID getUniqueId();
    }

Each created topic publisher has a unique topic id that can be retrieved by the method _getTopicId()_, the method _getTopicName()_ returns the topic name for the created TopicPublisher.

The method to send messages is _sendMsg()_ and has a single argument with the _DirectBuffer_ to send, the offset of the contents in the buffer and the length of the message.

**Important**: The send process is almost instantaneously, the message is internally stored in a buffer and will be sent in the background.

The method returns a result of type _PublishResult_ that should be check to know if the message has been sent correctly or not. 

The possible values are:

* OK -> The message has been sent correctly.
* * If there are no subscribers it will also return an OK.
* BACK_PRESSURE -> One of the subscribers for the topic cannot handle the data rate and therefor the message has not been sent to the subscriber.
* * The library user should decide to wait a bit and resend, or assume the loss.
* * The message may have arrive to some subscribers and not others.

**Important**: Resending after back pressure may result in duplicated messages in some subscribers.

## Sending messages with ByteBuffer

If you need to use a "normal" ByteBuffer instead of a DirectBuffer to send messages you can do it also.

There are 4 options here:

* "Wrap" the ByteBuffer to send into a new UnsafeBuffer every time a send is going to be made. The UnsafeBuffer is just a wrapper over the original one.
* Create a new UnsafeBuffer and always reuse the same object.
* * You can wrap the ByteBuffer only once if the ByteBuffer is going to be reused.
* * Or you can just wrap a new buffer with the same UnsafeBuffer object prior to send every time.

Let's see the three options with an example:

    Use ByteBuffer to send
    // This is the message we want to send
    ByteBuffer message = ByteBuffer.allocate(4);
    message.putInt(33);
    message.flip();

    // Option 1: Create a new UnsafeBuffer every time, wrapping the original buffer
    UnsafeBuffer option1 = new UnsafeBuffer(message);
    publisher.sendMsg(option1, message.position(), message.limit());

    // Option 2: Wrap the ByteBuffer only once if the ByteBuffer is being reused
    UnsafeBuffer option2 = new UnsafeBuffer(message);
    publisher.sendMsg(option2, message.position(), message.limit());

    // Create other message that reuses the buffer
    message.clear();
    message.putInt(44);
    message.flip();

    // Send again, the ByteBuffer is already wrapped
    publisher.sendMsg(option2, message.position(), message.limit());

    // Option 3: Wrap the ByteBuffer every time but reuse it

    // Create the unsafe buffer that will be reused
    UnsafeBuffer option3 = new UnsafeBuffer(ByteBuffer.allocate(0));

    // Craete a message
    ByteBuffer message = ByteBuffer.allocate(4);
    message.putInt(33);
    message.flip();

    // Wrap the mesasge and send
    option3.wrap(message);
    publisher.sendMsg(option3, message.position(), message.limit());

    // Craete another message
    ByteBuffer message2 = ByteBuffer.allocate(4);
    message.putInt(44);
    message.flip();

    // Wrap the mesasge and send
    option3.wrap(message2);
    publisher.sendMsg(option3, message.position(), message.limit());

# Full example

This is a simple example in which a message is sent with some content and the content is retrieved and displayed on the screen.

    // Create the instance parameters
    VegaInstanceParams params = VegaInstanceParams.builder().
            instanceName("TestInstance").
            configurationFile("config.xml").build();

    // Create the library instance
    IVegaInstance instance = VegaInstance.createNewInstance(params);

    // Create a listener
    ITopicSubListener listener = new ITopicSubListener()
    {
        @Override
        public void onMessageReceived(IRcvMessage receivedMessage)
        {
            int deserializedValue = byteBufferContents.getInt(receivedMessage.getContentOffset());
            System.out.println(deserializedValue);
        }

        @Override
        public void onRequestReceived(IRcvRequest receivedRequest) {}
    };

    // Subscribe to topic
    instance.subscribeToTopic("Topic1", listener);

    // Create a topic publisher
    ITopicPublisher topicPublisher = instance.createPublisher("Topic1");

    // Create the message to send
    UnsafeBuffer sendBuffer = new UnsafeBuffer(ByteBuffer.allocate(128));
    sendBuffer.putInt(0, 77);

    PublishResult result = topicPublisher.sendMsg(sendBuffer, 0, 4);

    if (result == PublishResult.BACK_PRESSURED)
    {
        // Resend the message?
    }

# Performance tips

**Always reuse buffers if possible.**

* The buffer to send messages is very easy to reuse and the performance is greatly improved.
* To receive messages is faster to use the internal _UnsafeBuffer_ of the message.
* If a _ByteBuffer_ is required to process the received message, try to provide a buffer to fill instead of creating a new one every time.

**Try not to block the events callback and don't perform long operations in them**
* Received messages, requests and events are notified through callbacks in the provided listeners.
* The polling thread is blocked until the callback returns.
* It will prevent new messages to be retrieved by that poller until the callback finishes.
* The same problem happens if a long operation is performed in the callback.
* For this cases try to process the message in the background on a separate thread.
* * You can promote the message and process it in another thread.
* * Even better, you can decode it and process the decoded message in another thread without having to promote it.

**Considering using more than one poller and distribute them correctly on the topics**

* If several topics have a high flow of messages it can be desirable to have a poller for each one in order to process the messages in parallel.

**Spend some effort defining the topic space and the transport relations in the configuration**

* The configuration can have a great impact on the library performance.
* Try not to use the same transport for topics with very high flows.
* Separate topics for prices and messages to prevent increase of latency on important messages.
* Use the StreamIDs for multiplexing/demultiplexing to reduce the number of "sockets" between peers.

**Be careful with the IdleStrategies selected and the Media Driver Type**

* The BusySpin idle strategies for media driver and pollers is very aggressive. Each thread in BusySpin is going to use a full CPU core.
* Unless there are extremely low latency requirements or no core limits it may be better to use Back Off strategy.