# Introduction and key concepts

## Heartbeats mechanism

The heartbeats are automatic requests that are sent periodically by a source in the connected topics. 

This is done by the framework when the feature is activated manually for the created TopicPublisher.

This request contains an special header that allows the framework to not use the normal message flow for them and hide the process from the framework user.

When a receiver gets a heartbeat request it automatically respond it, receivers always send a heartbeat respond back independently of the configuration.

**Important**: Heartbeats have to be manually activated per ITopicPublisher after the connection is performed.

## Client Connection Mechanism

The hearbeats are used to check if a client has connected or not. This information can be obtained from auto-discovery, however it takes some time to perform the transport connection when the autodiscovery advert is received. By using the client connection mechanism you can be absolute sure that the client is there and is able to receive messages since the heartbeats use the same message path than standard msgs and requests.

By using heartbeats and the request / response it implies we can be sure that the client is connected. A client is considered connected when it respond a heartbeat, on that moment we are sure it can receive messages.

The client is considered disconnected if there has been a while since the last heartbeat response we get from it.

The client connection mechanism is based in the unique instance id of the client.

# Using the heartbeats and client connection control

## Activating/Deactivating heartbeat sending and client connected checks

Heartbeats are activated through the ITopicPublisher once the connection to the topic has been made.

To activate them you need to specify the parameters and call the activate method. Here is an example:

    // Create the client connection listener
    final IClientConnectionListener connectionListener = new ClientConnectionListener();

    // Create 1 publisher
    final ITopicPublisher publisher = pubInstance.createPublisher("utopic1");

    // Activate heartbeats
    publisher.activateHeartbeats(connectionListener, HeartbeatParameters.builder().heartbeatRate(100).build());

    // Deactivate heartbeats
    publisher.deactivateHeartbeats();

As it is shown in the example deactivate them just require another method call.

## Activating/Deactivating check client connections

They are activated by default when the heartbeats are activated since it is the main purpose for using heartbeats.

**Important**: Deactivate the heartbeats will also stop the check client connections mechanism.

## HeartbeatParameters

The HeartbeatParameters follow the "Builder" pattern and all the parameters have default values that can be overwritten.

These are the available parameters:

* **heartbeatRate** -> Rate for consecutive heartbeat sent in milliseconds and timeout checking.
* * Default value 1000
* **heartbeatTimeout** -> Heartbeat timeout time in milliseconds for the heartbeat request
* * Default value 1000
* **maxClientConnChecks** -> Number of heartbeats sent without an answer before considering a client disconnected.
* * Default value 3

## IClientConnectionListener

You have to set a listener for client connection and disconnection events in the activate heartbeats call:

    /**
    * Listener for callbacks related to the heartbeat control mechanism. It will notify of
    * connections / disconnections based on the send and receive of heartbeats
    * 
    * @author XE27609
    *
    */
    public interface IClientConnectionListener
    {
        /**
        * Method called when a new client connects and has been checked using the heartbeats mechanism
        *
        * @param topicName topic name the client has connected to
        * @param clientInstanceId unique instance id of the connected client
        */
        void onClientConnected(String topicName, UUID clientInstanceId);
        
        
        /**
        * Method called when a client disconnects. This method is based on the heartbeat mechanism included in the framework. 
        * 
        * It also depend on the heartbeat checks configured before considering a client disconnected.
        *
        * @param topicName topic name the client has disconnected from
        * @param clientInstanceId unique instance id of the connected client
        */
        void onClientDisconnected(String topicName, UUID clientInstanceId);
    }

## Operation and configuration examplo

Configuring heartbeatRate to 2000 -> Each 2 seconds, Vega will send a heartbeat, and will check for unanswered requests.

Configuring heartbeatTimeout to 3000 -> All the responses received after 3 seconds will be discarded. But if a response
arrives before 3 seconds, this will reset the checks counter for this client.
Note than one heartbeat request could be responded for various clients (all the registered clients to this topic).

Configuring maxClientConnChecks to 5 checks -> When Vega does 5 checks over this client without receiving a response for
one of the heartbeats sent, this client is considered disconnected. So, with this configuration, each check is done each 2 seconds, 
and Vega needs 5 checks to detect a disconnection, then Vega will needs 10 seconds to send the disconnection event. 

With the default parameters, heartbeatRate to 1000, heartbeatTimeout to 1000 and maxClientConnChecks to 3, 
Vega will discard all the responses with more than 1 second, and after 3 seconds without a valid response, Vega will 
notify the disconnection event.