# Suggested configuration

To use the messaging library in Docker we recommend the next configuration:

* Use embedded media driver. Don't use the LowLatency version unless it is really required to avoid excessive resources usage.
* Set the docker in "host" mode to communicate using the host network directly.
* Configure the application to use the subnet of the host network instead of the docker virtual network.
* **Important**: Increase the filesystem of the shared memory space in the docker container with the command:
mount -t tmpfs -o remount,rw,nosuid,nodev,noexec,relatime,size=1024M tmpfs /dev/shm

With this configuration there is full duplex communication between docker containers, hosts and remote machines without the need to specify any port in the dockerfile or dockercompose configurations.

## Important stuff when using this configuration

In this mode there is an embedded driver per docker container, but the communication is going to use the host network. This means that you have to be very careful with the Vega Applications configuration to prevent more than one application from using the same port range. If the containers of both applications runs on the same host they will overlap ports and there will be connectivity problems.

# Host network mode sharing the Media Driver

It is possible to share the MediaDriver between containers instead of using it in embedded mode. There are 2 possibilities, run the media driver natively on the host machine or run the media driver in a container.

**The best option regarding performance is running the driver natively.**

**Option 1: Media Driver in Container**

Run the driver in a separate Docker Container.
* Ensure that there is only 1 driver container running per host.
* Change the media driver directory in the driver instance.
* * It should use a directory mapped with the host to be accesible by all the containers.
* Change the media driver directory in the application instances.
* * It should use the same mapped directory than the media driver.
* The shared directory should have enough space.

**Option 2: Media Driver native in host**

* Run the driver in the host.
* Change the media driver directory in the driver instance.
* * It should use a directory mapped with the host to be accesible by all the containers.
* Change the media driver directory in the application instances.
* * It should use the same mapped directory than the media driver.
* The shared directory should have enough space.

## Benefits and drawbacks

The main benefit is that we can use LowLatency version of the Driver since there is going to be only 1 per host. This fix the configuration problems of ports and several applications can share the same configuration.

If the driver is in a container, since it is going to write into a shared folder with the host, is not stateless anymore. If the driver is native we need to handle the driver separately and there is still the need to mount the directory in the containers.

# Other tested configurations

Here is the full list of tested configurations and the tests results on each one of them:

* **Test 1:** Publisher, subscriber and shared media driver in the same docker. OK
* **Test 2:** Publisher and subscriber in separate dockers on the same host with embedded media driver. Private network between containers. OK 
* **Test 3:** Publisher, subscriber and media driver in separate containers. Sharing the driver directory by mounting it with a shared directory in the host. OK
* **Test 4:** Publisher, subscriber in separate containers. Media driver running natively on the host. Sharing the driver directory by mounting it with a shared directory in the host. OK
* **Test 5:** Publisher and subscriber in separate sockets with embedded driver. Separate application in host with embedded driver. Host network mode. OK
* **Test 6:** Publisher and subscriber in separate sockets with embedded driver. Separate application in host with embedded driver. Host network mode. Replicate in 2 separate machines. OK
* **Test 7:** Publisher and subscribers in separate containers with embedded driver in bridge network mode openning ports. Application in host with embedded driver._ Works between host and containers if the Docker network is explicitly selected, don't work with a separate host.